I think when you play a a meaningful
part in bringing about the death of over
a 100,000 people and the injury of a
comparable number, you don't think of
that with ease.
The whole point of the doomsday machine
is lost if you keep it a secret. Why
didn't you tell the world?
On the 19th of May 1953, something
extraordinary happened in the Nevada
desert. A new kind of nuclear bomb camed
Harry was detonated at the Nevada test
site.
It unleashed 32 kotons of energy, twice
the power dropped on Hiroshima.
The military at the time was running
Operation Upshot Knole, a series of
nuclear tests to study how the blasts
affected homes, [music] buildings, and
infrastructure.
But of the dozens of nuclear devices
used, it seemed that Harry, which caused
the largest blast, might have had an
unintended side effect.
One of the engineers on site studying
all of this data was a decorated World
War II veteran named Arthur Stansel.
I can assure you that uh your name will
not be used.
The man had been working as a consultant
on blast effects of atom bombs [music]
when he was suddenly ordered to report
for a new mission.
Along with 15 other specialists, he was
ordered to leave [music] his belongings
behind. He was flown to Phoenix and
transported on a bus with blacked out
windows to a classified location near
Kingman, [music] Arizona. They were told
a secret test vehicle had crashed. His
job was to determine its impact
velocity.
I accepted it was probably some United
States government uh vehicle, a highly
classified vehicle. In fact, we were
told that that's what it was.
Under the flood lights, he saw the most
exotic craft [music] he had ever seen.
It looked like two deep saucers fused
together, buried 20 in in the sand. It
was roughly 30 ft in diameter, made of a
dull, brushed metal material. It had no
landing gear, no visible damage, and a
small open hatch. Inside a nearby tent,
a number of 4ft tall humanoid figures
laid out on a table.
While all of this might sound
unbelievable, more evidence of the
Kingman crash surfaced recently.
Former intelligence official Chris Melon
revealed that this flying saucer had
been recovered and studied over the
decades since its retrieval.
[music] And Stansel himself was no
random witness. His record is
impeccable. He earned three Purple
Hearts, a bronze star, and after the war
began, he sustained a [music] career in
physics and engineering at Wright
Patterson Air Force Base. And a
declassified report from Operation
Upshot Knol confirms Stansel was on site
for the nuclear testing there.
But it's the name mentioned alongside
Stansel's the head of the special
studies department at Wright Patterson
who is much more of a mystery. Dr.
[music] Eric Wang. Unlike Stansel, Wang
left almost no trace in public records.
Despite having his name endow a civil
engineering research facility at the
University of New Mexico, any other
details about what else he might have
been doing in his super secretive career
are non-existent. Attempts to verify his
background lead to nothing. No
biographical details, no employment
records, no published research. It was
as if he had been erased from the
records.
The mystery of Dr. Wing was picked up in
the 1980s by UFO researcher William
Steinman. After months of searching, he
finally found a clue, an obituary in an
old issue of a mechanical engineering
magazine. It turned out that Dr. Eric H.
Wang, born in 1906, had originally come
from Vienna.
In fact, he had graduated from Vienna
Technical Institute. And there are
suggestions that he was a contemporary
of Victor Shawberger, the man rumored to
have developed a revolutionary
propulsion system, perhaps even
conceptual flying saucers for the Nazis.
Steinman discovered that Wayne
immigrated to the US before World War
II, lectured at the University of
Cincinnati, and eventually became head
of the Department of Special Studies at
Wright Patterson. In 1956, Wang's
department was relocated to New Mexico
to the Sandia Laboratory's complex at
Kirtland Air Force [music] Base.
Steinman hit another dead end, and
despite being warned off this trail, he
took a different approach. He tracks
down Dr. Wang's widow, Maria. [music]
And that's when things took a turn.
Maria Wang confirmed that her late
husband had worked on classified
projects at Wright Patterson, projects
that involved technology not of this
world. She went even further, claiming
that before his death, Eric had confided
in her that the US government was
studying recovered extraterrestrial
craft.
[music]
But it was Maria's next revelation that
was truly shocking. She said that her
husband had reported directly to Henry
Kissinger.
Thank you. Nice to see you all.
Not only that, but that Kissinger was
deeply involved in the Flying Saucer
program, that Kissinger had overseen
much of her late husband's work, and
that he had even visited their home on
occasion. Yes, Henry Kissinger. The same
Kissinger that's one of the most
influential and controversial figures in
the 20th century.
We believe that peace is at hand.
National security adviser and secretary
of state under presidents Nixon and
Ford, the Harvard academic, nuclear
strategist, the man who won a Nobel
[music] Peace Prize for negotiating the
end of the Vietnam War, but who is also
considered by many a war criminal. that
Henry Kissinger.
But if Maria Wang's claim was true and
[music] Kissinger had worked with her
husband before he died in 1960, that
would have placed Kissinger at the
center of the most secretive program in
history before he had even entered
public office. That is a huge claim. Is
it possible that Henry Kissinger could
have been overseeing the legacy UFO
program? There is no country in the
world where it is conceivable that a man
of my origins could be standing here
next to the president of the United
States. [applause]
To understand that question, to
investigate that claim, we need to take
a few steps back. Because Kissinger's
rise to power and possible involvement
in UFOs didn't just come through
academia. It started in Germany at the
end of the war in army [music]
intelligence.
In today's world, staying informed can
feel like navigating a maze of
headlines, each with its own agenda.
That's why I started using Ground News,
a tool designed for skeptics and truth
seekers like many in this community.
It's an app and website created by a
former NASA engineer to tackle a problem
we all face. How the way we consume
information can distort our
understanding of the world. Ground News
brings transparency to the news. It
gathers coverage from over 50,000
sources worldwide, organizes stories by
topic, and even breaks down the bias and
ownership behind each perspective. With
features like the bias distribution bar
and factuality score, it's easy to see
how different outlets frame the same
story. For example, when I was
researching those mysterious drone
sightings, Ground News gave me instant
access to over 200 articles, helping me
uncover every angle from the facts to
the spin. For the left, from Radar
Online, Donald Trump says, "Shoot them
down." But on the right, news refers to
it as a rogue loose nuke. This just goes
to show how different the framing can be
based on where you're reading it. So, if
you're tired of echo chambers and
one-sided narratives, ground news is
your ultimate tool for staying informed
and making better decisions. You can
even follow your favorite topics and
compare coverage to find the most
credible sources. And for a limited
time, you can get the same plan I use
every day for nearly half the price.
Just go to ground.news/jesse
or scan this QR code to save 40% off
unlimited access to their Vantage plan.
Or gift it to someone you know and have
more informed discussions and hopefully
chill out about those drones. I only
promote brands I vet and I think you'll
find them just as valuable as I do.
Ground news. The truth is out there. You
just need the right tools to find it.
Henry Kissinger was born in 1923 in
Germany to a Jewish family and
immigrated to the US in 1938 to escape
[music] Nazi persecution. A gifted
student, he was drafted into the US Army
during World War II, where he fought in
major battles, witnessed the liberation
of a concentration camp, [music] and was
recruited into the Counter Intelligence
Corp, or CIC. The CIC, essentially the
Army's FBI, played a key role in
post-war Europe, securing Nazi
technology, hunting war criminals, and
safeguarding military secrets. [music]
It was deeply embedded in classified
operations, including those connected to
the Manhattan project. It's also
frequently mentioned in accounts of the
Roswell crash [music] and Majestic 12
leaks. Kissinger was assigned to
dennazification efforts in occupied
Germany. His ability to communicate with
locals and manage post-war chaos earned
him a reputation for confidence and
diplomacy. At just 22, he was entrusted
with overseeing the entire town of
Benshime, a role which provided him
significant authority. Later, he was
assigned to work in Oberamaro, a
picturesque town in the Bavarian Alps
with a lot of hidden significance.
Oberamaro happened to be the location of
a secret weapons facility that had been
dug into the nearby mountains. The
Messers Schmidt design branch had been
moved there during the war and they were
responsible for developing new
jetpropelled [music] planes and
radiocontrolled anti-aircraft missiles.
Henry Kissinger was one of the first
officers to occupy the barracks there in
1945. The timing of this assignment
places Kissinger right in the middle of
what was in the eyes of the US Army a
treasure trove of Nazi rocket scientists
and researchers.
Obergal was a crucial location for
counter intelligence operations and the
development of operation paperclipip,
the American program which secretly
imported 1500 plus Nazi scientists. In
fact, the designer of the V2 rocket and
the future head of America's rocket
program, Warner von Braonn had himself
been apprehended by the allies at
Oberamal. You spend most of your time
arguing with other people what the more
important things are and you don't get a
job done.
He along with some 400 other scientists
had been ordered to relocate to this
area by SS General Hans Comler. Com was
infamous not only for his role in
designing concentration camps [music]
but for overseeing the Nazis most
advanced weapons programs. Alongside
conventional rocketry and nuclear
research, there were persistent rumors
of more exotic experiments going on at
the time. These experiments involved
anti-gravity propulsion and flying
saucer-like craft. Victor Shawberger, an
Austrian scientist, had allegedly
developed a craft with an anti-gravity
effect that defied conventional physics.
According to historian Nick Cook's great
book, The Hunt for Zero Point, CIC
agents interrogated Shaburgger for nine
months, fully aware of his most
classified work. They reportedly
considered his discoveries more
important than Nazi nuclear research
itself. The technology they secured,
Cook suggests, had characteristics of a
UFO, a craft that seemingly defied the
laws of physics.
After the war ended, another Army CIC
agent, Neil Gershimer, tricked
Shawberger into signing all of his work
over to the United States. The
intellectual property around these
exotic propulsion principles would end
up at Brook Haven National Labs in Long
Island. So, this would infer that CIC
agents of the same organization as
Kissinger in the same field of
operations had already gathered the
intelligence to understand the secret
program. If the CIC was actively
collecting intelligence on this exotic
technology, Kissinger would have almost
certainly been aware of it. His
assignment placed him at the center of
the most sensitive intelligence
gathering area. His credentials,
relocation to Obergal, fluency in
German, and his prior experience in
arresting and questioning ranking Nazis
in Benshime. All of this would lead any
reasonable person to believe that
Kissinger was at least peripherilally
involved in managing the transition of
these Nazi scientists and their secrets
into US custody. Whether Kissinger knew
about experimental propulsion or other
worldly technology remains speculative,
but there is a distinct possibility that
he could have been trusted with
interrogating, translating, and
negotiating these secrets with Nazi
scientists as part of their passage to
freedom in the United States. All of
this at least places [music] Kissinger
at the crime scene, so to speak. So, the
question remains, what exactly did Henry
Kissinger have to do with UFOs?
Henry Kissinger enrolled at Harvard in
1947, [music]
balancing the life of a dedicated
student with his ongoing ties to the
counter intelligence corps. While his
peers saw him as a reclusive bookworm,
he remained close with his army
colleagues and maintained an interest in
intelligence operations. He graduated in
1950 as the Cold War intensified.
The Korean War was underway. The Soviets
had tested their first atomic bomb and
China had fallen to communism. Harvard
played a prominent role in the
comingling of the state [music]
intelligence community and academia.
James Conant, Harvard's president from
1933 to 1955, was a key figure in the
Manhattan Project, managing the delicate
balance [music] between scientists and
the military. A close ally of
Oenheimer's and Vanavar Bushes, he
[music] played a central role in shaping
America's atomic age, advising the
atomic energy commission and the joint
research development board. Conan was
second only to Oppenheimer as an adviser
to the government on military and
civilian applications of nuclear
technology. He was a staunch cold
warrior, setting Harvard's tone as an
anti-communist stronghold. Another
connection to the hidden UFO history
[music] was Harvard's top astronomer,
Dr. Donald Menzel, a leading UFO
debunker in the 1950s. He insisted that
all sightings had natural explanations.
But was he hiding something? Recent
claims by astrophysicist Dr. Beatatrice
Voral suggest Menzel ordered the
destruction of Harvard's astronomical
photographic plates taken during the
1952 Washington DC UFO flap. where he
suddenly becomes the director of Harvard
Observatory and he destroys onethird of
the photographic place and [music] and
he doesn't ask I understand from the
record he doesn't ask the astronomers to
select the place no he asked his [music]
secretary to go and throw away uh
onethird of the plates and there's a
woman Dory Toughlight that has been
[music] uh like telling about the story
in her memoirs and kind of he started
revenging on her later too for as I
understood it or that she tried to
protect some of the plates. He also
threw away a a number of the log books.
Adding to the mystery, Menzel was named
in the MJ12 documents as part of
Truman's top secret UFO research panel
in the late 1940s. Now, there are
definite issues with the MJ12 documents,
but there are core truths in those
documents that have been corroborated by
open- source research. More on that
later. Another key figure, physicist
Lewis Branskome, earned his PhD from
Harvard in 1949 and played a crucial
role in the 1960s Condan Committee,
which dismissed UFOs as scientifically
insignificant. As director of the
National Bureau of Standards, Bransome
allegedly offered committee chair Edward
Condan a deal. Help bury the UFO
question and get your security clearance
back. There was a close relationship
between the institutions of state power
and Harvard, hidden or not. For Harvard
and Kissinger, serving the Cold War
machine, whether through the Department
of Defense or the CIA, was a patriotic
duty. How might this have affected the
hidden history? Well, potentially any
crash retrievals or advanced physics,
would have been tightly controlled under
Cold War priorities. Secrecy was not
just about preventing public panic. It
was also about staying ahead in an
existential battle with the Soviet
Union. And while the Cold War never
erupted into direct global conflict, it
was still a war. Millions died in its
proxy battles. For those shaping policy,
it was just as existential as the fight
against Nazis, only now with the added
threat of weapons capable of ending
civilization itself. For Kissinger, the
apocalyptic stakes of the Cold War
shaped his early career. Neil Ferguson's
great biography highlights his deep
interest in psychological warfare. The
art of using propaganda, disinformation,
and scops to manipulate adversaries and
allies alike. In the 1950s, this meant
undermining the Soviets without direct
confrontation. Kissinger didn't just
theorize. He put these theories into
practice. He authored reports on
psychological warfare and with his
mentor William Elliot launched a series
of international seminars at Harvard.
These gatherings backed by the
intelligence community aimed to
cultivate foreign intellectuals as
allies of American influence. At the
same time, Kissinger maintained direct
ties to the CIA, including contact with
its chief, Alan Dulles. So, his
transition from military intelligence to
academia wasn't a break. It was a
continuation. But Kissinger's influence
extended beyond Harvard. In 1951, 1952,
and again in [music] 1955, he worked as
a consultant for the Psychological
Strategy Board and its [music]
successor, the Operations Coordinating
Board. These high-level programs
launched by Truman were designed to
unify Psychological Warfare efforts
across US agencies. A declassified CIA
document reveals the Psychological
Strategy Board's core mission, winning
hearts and minds through strategic
influence. More crucially, it highlights
how only a select few were deemed
capable of staffing this new
psychological warfare oversight body,
whether they were pulled from existing
agencies or recruited from outside the
government. [music] Kissinger, it seems,
was one of them. The Psychological
Strategy Board, or PSB, [music]
also has strong connections to the
hidden history of UFOs. Philip J. Corso
was a member, another CIC agent who went
into government. He was on the staff of
Eisenhower's National Security Council
and eventually became the chief of the
Pentagon's foreign technology desk in
Army Research and Development. Corso
went on to claim in his book, The Day
After Roswell, that alien tech had been
recovered and reverse engineered from
crash retrieval programs. Another PSB
figure, Douglas Jackson, was special
assistant to the president under
Eisenhower. He served as liaison between
the CIA and the Pentagon. By 1960,
Jackson had moved into publishing,
becoming head of Life magazine. After
Kennedy was assassinated, Life acquired
the Zapruder film, the clearest footage
of the assassination, but instead of
releasing it in full, they only
published black and white stills with
certain key frames missing. [music] The
moving footage was withheld for over a
decade. Jackson himself died not long
after, but his past intelligence ties
raise serious questions about how the
assassination was managed in the [music]
media. These examples show how the
Psychological Strategy Board's influence
could extend beyond psychological
warfare into shaping public perception
of major historical events. And in
Corso's case, how he went from the
Army's CIC to a national security
position in government to knowledge of
the UFO program. The PSB had no shortage
of interesting figures, but it just goes
to show how connected psychological
warfare was to the hidden history of
UFOs. This is best shown in a series of
declassified CIA documents from 1952.
One memo involving CIA director Walter
B. Smith highlights the national
security risk posed by flying saucers,
not just as unknown aerial threats, but
as tools that could be exploited by the
Soviets to spread hysteria or disrupt
air defense systems. The memo states,
"The flying saucer situation contains
two elements of danger, which in a
situation of international tension have
national security implications. These
are psychological and air
vulnerability." Another document, this
time from Smith to the director of the
Psychological Strategy Board, notes that
over 1,500 UFO reports had been logged.
20% remained unexplained, prompting an
urgent question. Could these phenomena
be controlled, predicted, or even used
in military or psychological operations?
At this point, Henry Kissinger re-enters
the picture. Around this time, he was
recruited to produce reports for the
army in Korea and Germany. He also
became a direct consultant to the head
of the psychological strategy board
himself, Gordon Gray. Gray was not a
minor figure. A former secretary of the
army, he had oversight of psychological
warfare strategies across multiple
agencies, and he later chaired the
committee that revoked Oppenheimer's
security clearance. He also served as
national security adviser under
Eisenhower. His influence continued for
decades, spanning the Kennedy, Johnson,
Nixon, and Ford administrations as a
member of the foreign intelligence
advisory board. Gray was as embedded in
the security state as one could be. And
perhaps unsurprisingly, he had
connections to the UFO question.
Is what is called the golden age of
general relativity [music] tied to
these topics? Well, this is the
explosion. Uh there there's a famous uh
series. The author was [music] Talbert.
Anel Talbert wrote an article for the
New York Herald Tribune in November of
1955 while Gray was president of the
University of North [music] Carolina.
The article's title conquest of gravity
aim of top scientists [music] in United
States. It details the efforts of
numerous universities, [music]
companies, top physicists, and documents
their prospects for studying and
controlling gravity, a discovery which
is of quote unquote tremendous import to
the field of aircraft design. It [music]
also states that a proposal to establish
an institute of pure physics at the
University of North [music] Carolina to
carry on theoretical research on gravity
had been sanctioned by the board of
trustees which had the final approval of
Dr. Gordon Gray. In 1956, this Institute
of Field Physics at the University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, holds
what's known as the Chapel Hill
Conference, convening all of the world's
top theoretical physicists [music] to
discuss gravity. This conference is
sponsored by Wright Airfield. The head
of the Institute of Field Physics, Agnu
Bonsson, is also funding mid-century
inventor Thomas Townsen Brown, who is
claiming to get successful positive
results on gravity manipulation
experiments. Gray was also named as one
of the advisers on the top secret
research and development organization
established by Truman as it appears in
the leaked Majestic [music]
12 documentation. His deep ties to the
military, psychological warfare,
government, and academia. on top of this
link to gravity research. This makes a
very plausible case that he would have
been read in to highlevel UFO programs.
So [music] remember, these are the
circles that Kissinger was moving in
while he was still a graduate student.
He wasn't just another Harvard
intellectual. [music]
He was corresponding with CIA director
Alan Dulles, consulting with Gordon Gray
at the Psychological Strategy Board, and
networking with the power brokers
shaping Cold War intelligence. All of
this on top of his CIC work in Germany,
managing the transition of Nazi
scientists [music] and possibly their
exotic propulsion research. And once
Kissinger got his PhD, these ties were
developed further in [music] tandem with
his academic development. In 1955,
Kissinger started to write critically of
Eisenhower's nuclear strategy of massive
retaliation. It was the threat of
responding to an attack, conventional or
nuclear, with an immediate all-out
nuclear barrage. Kissinger claimed this
was outdated now that the Soviets
maintained their own substantial nuclear
arsenal. [music] He argued that the
United States should be ready to fight
limited localized nuclear wars. His
writing was noticed [music] and he was
invited by Mc George Bundy, a colleague
and professor at Harvard at this time
[music] to work with the Council on
Foreign Relations. The CFR, a private
organization tied to elite circles of
business, government, and academia, was
a crucible for cold [music] war policy.
Much like a think tank, it served as a
discussion club of the most powerful and
successful leaders and well-connected
figures of foreign affairs. Walter
Isaxson's biography of Kissinger
describes the most exalted enterprises
of the CFR to be the so-called study
[music] groups where around a dozen or
so distinguished individuals and wise
men met regularly over the course of 12
months to explore a particular subject
in depth. Each group had a study
director, usually an upand cominging
academic, who would collate [music]
their discussions into something that
may or may not be disseminated to
government or the public. For example,
Mc George Bundy was a part of a study
group in the late 1940s that examined
Marshall Plan aid to Europe. Some of its
members should sound familiar.
Eisenhower before his presidency [music]
was involved along with future CIA
director Alan Dulles and future CIA
deputy director Richard M. [music]
Bissell. Also contributing was George F.
Kennan just after writing his famous
long telegram under the pen name X which
shaped cold war policy of containing
Soviet communism. So, the who's who of
international diplomacy. Flick open your
modern history of the United States and
these guys are all over it. And as far
as the hidden UFO history goes, aside
from the obvious links to someone like
Eisenhower and the possible Majestic 12
advisory board, you've also got Richard
Bissell, who spearheaded developments in
American reconnaissance [music] aircraft
like the U2 and its successor, the SR71.
He knew his way around Area 51 and he
was famously [music] named by
presidential adviser Harold Malmgrren as
being the person who had briefed
Malmgrren on other world technologies.
Said there are things you need to know.
In 1955, Kissinger was invited to direct
a Council on Foreign Relations study
group on nuclear war and foreign policy.
He was briefed by Robert Oppenheimer
himself [music] and instructed to turn
the findings into a book. The group was
chaired by Gordon Dean, former head of
the Atomic Energy Commission and
included top military officials, [music]
government insiders, and scientists. The
resulting book, Nuclear Weapons and
Foreign Policy, was a breakthrough.
Oppenheimer called it extraordinarily
well-informed, and it launched Kissinger
into the public eye. By the end of the
decade, he was advising the Joint Chiefs
of Staff in making regular TV
appearances as a nuclear strategy
expert. Before the book was even
published, Kissinger had been pulled
into even more elite circles. He was
approached by one of the most powerful
names in America, Nelson Rockefeller. At
the time, Rockefeller was serving as an
adviser to President Eisenhower, tasked
with countering Soviet influence in
psychological warfare [music] and
beyond. After Stalin's death in 1953, US
officials worried about a Soviet peace
offensive aimed at undermining US
military power, sewing discord among
allies and backing revolutionary
movements in the developing [music]
world. Rockefeller's job was to counter
this and he formed his own expert panel
to strategize for the president.
Kissinger was brought in alongside
military leaders, academics, and private
sector figures. The group first met at
Quantico, Virginia to draft reports for
Eisenhower. This was Kissinger's first
collaboration with Rockefeller, but far
from his last. Two years later, he would
serve as the director for the
Rockefeller Brothers Fund special
studies project, a panel on US
international security objectives and
strategy [music] that included Edward
Teller. Kissinger and Teller would work
closely together on a number of
occasions afterwards. Teller was key to
the Manhattan project. He was the
inventor of the hydrogen bomb and was
named in a document written by
Australian nuclear physicist Harry
Turner. This report on behalf of
Australian intelligence aimed to
investigate what the US had been
studying when it came to UFOs. Nobody in
conventional national security circles
disputes this report. It's deemed valid
as a very real document. And Harry
Turner definitely led all nuclear
efforts for the Australian Joint
Intelligence Organization, which is
basically Australia's CIA. Turner stated
that Edward Teller was working with
others on the objective to control
gravity. So, we have yet another close
associate of Kissinger being implicated
in the hidden history of science and
perhaps tech behind UFOs. By the late
1950s, Kissinger was a tenured Harvard
professor, a trusted adviser to the
military and government, and a rising
public intellectual. But his official
ascent leaves room for this hidden
history to press against it. Just recall
Maria Wing's claim that her husband had
worked directly under Kissinger, who was
in some capacity involved in the UFO
program by this time. This is
tangential, but there is at least one
document I was able to find that
connects Kissinger to the world of crash
retrievals. Hey guys, I want to tell you
about my new favorite piece of apparel.
These are called the perfect jeans.
They're literally the perfect jeans. I
used to wear jeans all the time and
they're kind of rough and not super
stretchy or breathable. These are
extremely comfortable. They work in
casual environments. They work in work
settings. They come in six different
sizes from 26 in to 50 in. And they're
all around just amazing. For a limited
time, our listeners get 15% off your
first order, plus free shipping at the
perfect gene.nyc.
Again, that's the perfect gene.nyc. NYC
or just Google the perfect gene. Use
code jesse15 for that 15% off. Again,
that's code jessie15.
That's 15% off for new customers at the
perfect gene.nyc.
After purchase, they'll ask where you
heard about them. Please support our
show and tell them that we sent you.
your khakis. Get the perfect gene.
A redacted history of Sandia
Laboratories in New Mexico notes that
Don Carter, who was later a Nixon
administration adviser on atomic energy
and assistant to the Secretary of
Defense. While Carter had been promoted
in 1961 to oversee advanced research at
Kirtland Air Force Base. As part of his
work, Carter organized interdisciplinary
seminars featuring noted international
experts and specialists, one of them,
Henry Kissinger. We also know that in
1962, [music] as part of the Bluegill
Triple Prime test in the Pacific, one
detonation reportedly downed a UFO.
Craft was then recovered and sent to the
Albuquerque operations office, which
oversaw Los Alamos in Sandia Labs at
Kirtland Air Force Base. Who is in
charge of that office? Lawrence Preston
Gis, better known as Jeff Bezos's
maternal grandfather, who also worked
for the Atomic Energy Commission. Harold
Malgm was presidential adviser for JFK
at the time and he was in charge of
White House efforts around this bluegill
triple prime test. And in the Navy
decklogs of the ships associated with
the Bluegill Triple Prime test, you can
see that anomalous debris came out of
the plume of this blast and was
recovered. The anomalous debris was then
sent to New Mexico to be taken charge of
by Lawrence Preston G. So given that
Harold Malmgrren was in charge of the
nuclear test for the White House, he
decided to scope things out with
Lawrence Preston G. According to
Malmgrren, G was directly involved in
reverse engineering recovered craft in
this exact period. So Malgrim went to go
meet Gis in New Mexico. And according to
Malgm's tweets, G was directly involved
in reverse engineering recovered craft
in this exact period. So another UFO
crash retrieval is tied to Sandia Labs
where Dr. Wang worked and [music] where
Kissinger is connected. But the
questions still exist. Was Kissinger
aware of any active UFO programs. Was he
actively managing them? At this point,
discussing whether Kissinger was
involved in a UFO program inevitably
leads us to the leaked documents that
have pointed to the existence of the
Majestic 12. Now, I know some of you
might already have strong opinions about
the MJ12 docs, but I just want to remind
viewers that it's not just one thing.
It's a collection of over 3,000 pages
from different eras leaked over decades.
Yes, some of these could be forgeries.
Some of these could be purposeful
misinformation, part of a limited
hangout strategy, but that doesn't make
the whole thing invalid. If we can sift
through the evidence, you can find some
really significant details and other
details that are corroborated by open-
source research. Take for example a
leaked MJ12 document from 1995 recently
discussed by Ross Kolthart on NewsNation
[music] with former Australian
intelligence officer Jeff Krushank. It
details a top secret request from
President John F. Kennedy to CIA
director Alan Dulles on June 28th, 1961.
In it, JFK asks for a review of MJ12
intelligence operations as they relate
to cold war psychological warfare.
Skeptics might dismiss this, but here's
where it gets interesting. A document
was released in the 2022 JFK files
revealing Dulles had actually scheduled
something very interesting for that day.
Something completely unknown to the
public in 1995. The document showed two
meetings between Dulles and JFK on June
28th, 1961.
A fact that would have been impossible
for a forger [music] to predict decades
earlier upon release of the MJ12
documents. So there's a document in the
MJ12 files, these very [music] disputed
MJ12 D files, which has that date of the
28th of June, 1961.
Correct.
Yep, that's correct.
And and that's the date of a meeting
between the CIA director Alan Dulles and
President John F. Kennedy
twice. No,
nobody
nobody knew about that meeting until
that diary was declassified in [music]
2022.
That's correct.
This isn't the only MJ12 document with
verifiable details. [music] Others
contain obscure, hard to fake markings
in marginelia that experts have analyzed
as authentic. This is similar to the Bob
Lazar story which I have reported on ad
nauseium. If it weren't for Bob Lazar,
we might still not know that Area 51
exists. But there are a lot of reasons
to believe that aspects of the Bob Lazar
story were pushed out as passage
material. Let's get back to the MJ12.
For the sake of those watching that
might be new to this topic, let's
quickly sketch out a picture of what the
MJ12 is.
Allegedly, the Majestic 12 was a secret
committee formed by President Truman in
1947 to handle the extraterrestrial
issue. It included top scientists,
military leaders, and government
officials. Figures like Vanavar Bush,
Gordon Gray, Donald Menzel, and even
Eisenhower. All names we've already
discussed. But regardless of the
reliability of any one document,
consider the bigger picture. MJ12 was
supposed to have been created at the
same time the Truman administration was
facing an entirely new existential
threat, nuclear [music] weapons. The
atomic bomb changed the course of
history. It reshaped humanity's
relationship with extinction itself.
There was a pre-nuclear world and a
post-nuclear [music]
world. So, how did the government
respond? By forming classified
interdisciplinary groups to study the
issue, advise the military and
government, and develop strategies for
managing the risks of this new era.
Okay, that seems pretty logical. Now, if
anything truly extraordinary happened
at, say, Roswell, what would you expect
the government to do?
Well, you'd probably expect them to
establish a classified interdisciplinary
team to research the phenomenon, its
implications, learn what they could
about any strategic advantages, and
decide what, if anything, the public
should know about the topic. [music]
Whether or not it was called MJ12, the
idea that a structured oversight body
existed is entirely consistent with how
the US government responded to other
worldchanging events. and other
documents on top of Dulles's schedule,
like the Eisenhower brief, have been
fully verified by open- source research.
[music]
And that brings us back to Kissinger. If
such a program existed, and if it
evolved over the decades from how it was
supposedly set up in the 1940s, how
would somebody like Kissinger fit in?
Kissinger's early career placed him in
positions that directly intersected with
the roles described in the MJ12
documents. His time within the counter
intelligence corps during and after
World War II positioned him within an
intelligence network that was deeply
involved in early crash retrievals
[music] and the exploitation of Nazi
scientific expertise through programs
like Operation Paperclip. Leaked MJ12
memos from the 1940s reference CIC
involvement in UFO investigations,
including Roswell. When Kissinger
returned to Harvard at the end of the
war, it's plausible that he did so with
intelligence ties and some knowledge of
secret technology [music] programs. If
Kissinger's connection to MJ12 deepened,
it likely happened in the mid 1950s when
his role shifted from academia to
directly shaping government policy. His
invitation to the Council on Foreign
Relations study group on Nuclear
Strategy placed him alongside figures
like Robert Oppenheimer and Gordon Dean,
key players in both nuclear policy and
potentially the UFO issue. For Kissinger
to be included in these discussions, he
would have needed a high security
clearance. Could the UFO question have
been part of their classified
deliberations? [music]
While there's no direct proof, the
overlap of names between the CFR study
groups and MJ12 suggests they operated
in adjacent circles. Kissinger's role in
Nelson Rockefeller's special studies
project further cemented his position.
Rockefeller, an Eisenhower adviser, led
US efforts to counter Soviet influence
through strategic initiatives. This
think tank included many figures from
Kissinger's CFR group, creating
potential crossovers between official
policy and classified programs. We must
assume that Rockefeller had some
connection to MJ12 by this point too. In
fact, Detlev Bronc who is the president
of the Rockefeller Foundation was named
as one of the Majestic 12. And this
whole suggestion is not that the MJ12
was a static organization. It may have
evolved in this period from a small
Truman era committee to a more
structured program under Eisenhower and
elite think tanks like these may have
served as its intellectual and strategic
backbone. This also raises the question,
was this the moment private industry was
let in on the secret? By the late 1950s,
the US government was increasingly
outsourcing classified research to
private aerospace and defense
contractors. If MJ12 or its successor
wanted to study and reverse engineer UFO
materials while avoiding congressional
oversight, compartmentalizing the work
within private corporations would have
been the ideal method. This shift would
implicate Kissinger throughout his close
ties to Rockefeller, both in think tanks
and on his presidential campaigns. Many
of the special studies project's key
recommendations were integrated into
Eisenhower's policies, appearing in his
1958 State of the Union address. Yet
much of its classified output remains
locked in Rockefeller's archive center.
Depending on where you look, you'll find
different claims about Kissinger's
involvement. Some argue that he was
bought by the Rockefellers early on,
particularly through a grant he received
while earning his PhD, and that his
Harvard career was merely a cover for
deeper intelligence work advising MJ12
through a specialized think tank known
as PI40. Others suggest that MJ12 and
PI40 were interchangeable names for the
same group, which evolved over decades,
but remain embedded in the US national
security structure. Even if we stay
skeptical about the MJ12 documents
themselves, [music] the broader logic of
their existence makes sense within Cold
War power structures. If a secret UFO
study group existed, whether called MJ12
or something else, Kissinger's career
trajectory places him squarely within
the network of individuals likely to
have been involved. Before making any
definitive claims about Kissinger's role
in MJ12 or the UFO program, one thing is
certain. Before he ever entered a
presidential administration, he operated
within a deeply secretive strata of
power. His rise to one of the highest
positions in the country may not be
unconnected to the relationships he had
built since his time as a CIC agent. In
the 1960 election, John F. Kennedy
narrowly defeated Richard Nixon. While
Kissinger is now mainly associated with
Nixon's legacy, it is often overlooked
that he also worked under Kennedy.
Kennedy's administration was filled with
elite thinkers from different political
and industry backgrounds, [music]
including several who had worked on
Rockefeller's special studies project
like Kissinger. Despite working on
Rockefeller's presidential run, writing
speeches and giving advice, he had been
approached by the Kennedy team in 1958
to discuss long range problems and
weapons evaluation. Officially, he was
consulting the White House on nuclear
weapons in Germany, but he remained
close to Rockefeller, seeing him as a
future presidential contender. The rest
of his time was spent teaching at
Harvard. It was in this period that he
cemented his staunch anti-communist
stance. As Neil Ferguson recounts,
Kissinger saw nuclear weapons not as a
curse, but as a potential safeguard for
civilization. His view was that tactical
nuclear weapons could and should be used
to deter communism. This willingness to
prioritize strategic concerns over
morality characterized his entire
approach to global problems. If he
applied the same logic to UFOs, he may
have viewed them as another stabilizing
element that required secrecy and
control. It was also during this period
in Kennedy's presidency that the Cold
War had reached a boiling point. The Bay
of Pigs disaster in 1961 led to the
ousting of CIA director Alan Dulles and
Deputy [music] Director Richard Bissell.
Bissell notably didn't fade into
obscurity. This raises a question. How
many others sidelined from their
official positions continued to operate
within the hidden world of UFO programs?
In Bissell's case, the rumor was he left
work at the CIA on Friday and on Monday
he returned because he was too
indispensable to certain [music]
activities he was involved in. It was
just 2 months after the Bay of Pigs in
June of 1961 that [music] Kennedy
requested a full briefing on MJ12
activities from the head of the CIA,
specifically with respect to their role
in cold war psychological warfare. This
was before Dulles was dismissed, which
occurred in November. Did JFK's decision
to clean house at the CIA overlap with
an inquisition into the activities of
the MJ12? What did Kennedy find out, and
what impact would this have had on his
life? The very word secrecy is repugnant
in a free and open society. And we are
as a people inherently and historically
opposed to secret societies, to secret
oaths, and to secret proceedings.
We decided long ago that the dangers of
excessive and unwarranted concealment,
of pertinent facts, far outweighed the
dangers which are cited to justify it.
Perhaps that will be a topic we can
touch on another time. But it wasn't
long before another crisis emerged, the
Berlin standoff. Kissinger found himself
sidelined during this crisis, and
despite nuclear being one of his areas
of expertise, he was scarcely consulted.
It wasn't long after that that Kissinger
left the White House. At the end of the
1960s, [music] with Kennedy gone, the
Johnson administration having run its
course, Rockefeller had again run for
president. But once again, the campaign
didn't take and Kissinger was
unexpectedly available when Nixon came
calling. Despite once calling Nixon the
most dangerous candidate, Kissinger
[music] accepted the role of national
security adviser, marking the start of
his most infamous chapter. Why was
Kissinger Nixon's choice? Officially,
his deep expertise in nuclear strategy
and foreign policy made him invaluable.
It is often suggested that it was
through his associations with MJ12 or an
MJ12- like group that Kissinger was
considered the perfect person to
accompany Nixon into the White House.
[music] Was Kissinger brought into the
administration because he was the ideal
person to oversee another arms race, one
hidden from public view. Just as the
[music] Cold War saw a nuclear arms race
alongside proxy wars, it is plausible
that there was also a secret
technological arms race focused on
reverse engineering UFO technology. If
Kissinger's approach to nuclear weapons
is any indication, he would have treated
the UFO issue extremely pragmatically,
seeing it as a destabilizing factor that
had to be carefully managed. His belief
in secrecy, careful analysis, and
psychological warfare would have made
him the perfect candidate to control
access to such information. [music]
It is unlikely that Kissinger saw UFOs
as a fantastical anomaly for a man so
entrenched in real politic. They would
have been just another variable, albeit
an extraordinary one, in the
geopolitical equation, particularly if
he had been aware of their early
existence since his early 20s. So, what
influences might this have had on him
since he reached the peak of US power in
1969? The Nixon White House was home to
scandals, secrets, and occasional
absurdity. One of the strangest stories
tied [music] to Nixon, and one that
raises questions about what Kissinger
might have been aware of, involves the
actor Jackie Gleason, [music]
who is famously obsessed with UFOs. He
even built his house to resemble a
flying saucer. According to Gleon's
ex-wife, one night in the 1970s, Nixon,
possibly drunk, showed up at the actor's
house unannounced and took him to see
alien bodies at a secret facility.
Gleason, reportedly shaken, shared the
story upon returning home, only for it
to resurface in the tabloids years
later. Its veracity is debatable. Was
Nixon bragging to impress his golf
buddy, letting off steam? Was it all
fake? No one knows. But if Nixon was at
all interested in UFOs, his closest
adviser, who frequently endured his late
night drunken tirades, was surely
hearing about it. Kissinger's time in
the White House as national security
adviser from 1969 to 1975 and Secretary
of State from 1973 to 1977 gave him
immense power over US foreign policy. He
shaped cold war diplomacy, managed
Vietnam, and opened relations with
[music] China. But what about the hidden
UFO history? In these years, we have the
official record. And then we have what
was never meant to be recorded. The
Watergate scandal, secret bombings in
Southeast Asia, covert operations in
Latin America, and whatever was being
discussed inside the 303 committee, the
secretive body overseeing CIA missions.
But the question will remain if someone
like Kissinger was involved in the MJ12,
did this overlap with his duties in the
White House in international relations
or with this 303 committee? The 303
committee was a secret US inter agency
group that oversaw all covert operations
and Kissinger was involved with it. So
how much crossover was there between the
official and hidden history when it came
to the 303 committee or the 5412 unit
which had preceded it or the [music] 40
group which came after it? The names
given to the small highle teams that
oversaw all covert operations for the US
government. Were they as deeply involved
in UFOs as some researchers suggest?
Officially, these groups [music] members
typically included the national security
adviser, senior officials from the CIA,
and representatives from the state and
defense departments. Their job was to
approve covert actions while shielding
the president from direct involvement.
Nominally, this separation was ensured
to maintain plausible deniability on the
part of the president. But this nominal
separation at times allowed this group
to wield power over the president and to
do things without the president's
permission. It's easy to think that UFO
secrecy would be bound up in these
continuity of government programs, which
is perhaps why these official names are
sometimes said to be interchangeable
with MJ12 in the UFO space.
Alternatively, could programs like MJ12
have evolved into operations more akin
[music] to the CIA's notorious chaos or
MK Ultra? discrete groups acting with
autonomy shielded from higher levels of
government oversight. If these secrets
ever make it to the archives, we might
get a definitive answer. Until then,
solid links between Kissinger and UFO
programs are rare. But there are a few
other breadcrumbs that stand out.
Firstly, we have circumstantial evidence
of Harold Malgm brought into the Nixon
administration in 1971. Analyst Matthew
Pines has suggested that Malgrim was at
times [music]
just as influential as Kissinger, almost
acting as a check on Kissinger's own
power. Harold was, you know,
self-consciously not a self-promoter. He
was not someone who was looking to for
the power. He was recognized and his
survivability was because he was going
to be the guy working behind the scenes,
executing, not taking credit, just the
guy who would get stuff done,
right? And that's was you know whereas
Kissinger was the guy who would like you
know walk over people's necks right and
but they were in equal positions right
they were trusted and they were often
used by presidents you know to check
each other like Malmrren was used
explicitly by Nixon to check Kissinger
in many negotiations to like confirm
that Kissinger wasn't going rogue on
various things go and the whole China
thing the the back channels with the
Soviets Malgren was Nixon's like you
know confirmation you know route right
cuz he didn't fully trust Kissinger to
do all this stuff cuz was kind of this
rogue guy, right? He thought he was the
president, right?
So Malgren was there to kind of like act
as a bit of a a check.
It would certainly make sense then that
if Malmgrren had been read into
otherworldly technology by Richard
Bissell around this time that if he had
seen evidence of the craft down during
the Bluegill triple prime explosion
[music] that was taken to Los Alamos,
then Kissinger with his deep connections
to nuclear strategy and intelligence
likely [music] had a similar level of
awareness. Then there is the most
intriguing clue of all. In January of
1977, just before leaving office,
Kissinger sent a telegram to the US
embassy in Ottawa requesting a report on
quote unquote possible returned space
[music] objects. The subject line, Moon
Dust. Operation Moondust was a cold war
era program established by the US Air
Force to recover and analyze foreign
space [music] debris, including Soviet
satellites and other advanced
technology. However, declassified
documents reveal that Moondust remmit
[music] extended beyond conventional
technology to include unidentified
objects. This leads some to speculate
that it may have dealt with
extraterrestrial materials. Other
declassified documents which [music]
describe similar circumstances or
directly reference moon dust add to this
mystery. One document describes the
recovery of spherical objects in New
Zealand farmland. Another details a
fireball and subsequent sightings of
silent aircraft near a Bolivian crash
site. Incredibly, I found one that was
sent to Wright Patterson Air Force Base,
which discusses a 1957 UFO event in
Afghanistan that rivals what reportedly
occurred at Roswell. These documents
suggest a striking similarity between
Moondust's operations and the procedures
outlined in MJ12 documents and what we
now know about legacy UFO programs. Does
[music] Kissinger's telegram prove he
was involved? Not exactly, but it
confirms he was aware of moondust. And
given everything else that he had done
until this point, well, perhaps this
breadcrumb, however meager, is a
significant one. [music] Kissinger's
role under Nixon is often cited as
emblematic of centralized secret
governance. Journalist William Shawross
described how Kissinger controlled the
National Security Council's processes,
[music] funneling decisions through
layers of analysis he personally
managed. This allowed him to decide what
Nixon would review. while bypassing
bureaucratic disscent. In 1968, before
even entering the White House, Kissinger
wrote, "The only way secrecy can be kept
is to exclude from the making of the
decisions all those who are
theoretically charged with carrying it
out." This philosophy, deliberately
keeping key decisions out [music] of
reach, even from senior military and
government figures, mirrors the kind of
compartmentalization that seems to have
governed UFO secrecy. This seems like a
direct result of his work for the CIC
and for the Psychological Strategy Board
and who knows perhaps for the MJ12. As
Marvin and Bernard Kalb suggested in
their biography of Kissinger, [music]
apparently he had no trouble justifying
these kinds of deceptive practices.
Kissinger's approach to governance was
simple. Achieve the objective, whatever
it takes. Secrecy, deception, even
actions that in hindsight many consider
criminal. The same logic could have been
applied to managing disruptive
technology of nonhuman origin. If UFOs
posed a cold war threat or advantage,
they could have been compartmentalized,
controlled, [music] and kept out of
public reach. And Kissinger would have
been in a prime position to oversee such
efforts. And his legacy is still visible
today. For all the cynicism and
warranted criticism surrounding
Kissinger's tenure, his real politic
approach to diplomacy achieved notable
successes such as opening relations with
China and advancing arms control through
the Salt One talks. It would be
incredibly interesting from a historical
perspective to find out if there was
some kind of UFO related impetus or
rationale behind some of these moves and
in particular if Kissinger was using his
knowledge or position within that hidden
network to parlay or barter these
relations. Due to Kissinger's possible
awareness of the UFO issue, he probably
would have used this secret knowledge to
his advantage when he felt it necessary.
And despite the decades of tension and
mistrust that came after, Kissinger
remains a popular figure in both Beijing
and Moscow. He was a longtime confidant
of Vladimir Putin. There is a telling
exchange between the two from the '90s
when in conversation with the future
Russian president about their respective
backgrounds. Putin told Kissinger he got
his start in intelligence. To [music]
which Kissinger replied, "All decent
people get their start in intelligence.
I did too." In China as well, Kissinger
has remained relevant since the 70s.
President Xi Jinping described him as an
old friend, stating that Cenino US
relations will always be linked with the
name of Henry Kissinger. Both Putin and
Shei expressed sincere condolences when
Kissinger died at age 100 in November
[music] of 2023. Figures like Richard
Bissell, who moved from the CIA into
private defense, suggest that real
secrecy does not end when someone's ties
to an administration does. So, did
Kissinger continue operating in
classified spheres even after leaving
government? His [music] access to power
remained unbroken for decades, and he
was continually sought out for foreign
policy council on China, post 911, Iraq,
[music] and even AI. Was he playing a
longer game, leveraging hidden knowledge
in ways we still don't understand?
Modern UFO whistleblower David Grush has
suggested that someone like former vice
president Dick Cheney was a gatekeeper
of the UFO program. If such a role
exists, it [music] must have been
occupied before Cheney, possibly by
another Machavelian operative, by
Kissinger himself. Some figures exist in
the public eye, but operate a second
life in the shadows, redacted,
classified, denied. It takes a certain
kind of person to thrive in that space.
Someone ruthless. Someone pragmatic.
Someone who can manage nuclear strategy,
covert wars, and morally indefensible
decisions. Maybe even UFO programs. So
whether Kissinger was exactly what Maria
Wing described to Bill Steyman on the
phone, I think it's very possible. And
it makes you think, does that [music]
position still exist? Who is the
gatekeeper now? And will we ever know?
Until next episode, my name's Jesse
Michaels and this is American Alchemy.